Reapers Media Explorer can be used to drag and drop audio for other programs, not just Reaper
Try binding your most used actions to the keys your left hand's fingers rests on
Automation Items let you reuse automation across plugins, tracks and even projects!
Working with video? change grid to frames for easier editing
use startup actions to run actions when opening reaper/projects (like the one you are using now!
set up multiple tool bars and switch between them as needed.
save time by combining multiple actions into custom actions 
use parameter modulation on any fx setting to add an LFO or side chain.
right click the track panel and add "virtual spacer" to organise and separate tracks
use the track manager to choose what tracks are displayed and played on each screen and much more
composing? check out reapers notation editor
control reaper on your phone or tablet using a Web browser interface
use the projects bay to help manage your project
looking to collaborate? check out NINJAM to work along side other people in the same project remotely.
check out the track wiring view to easily visualise and manage your projects routing
use the media browser to quickly import sound effects and samples
in the media browser, create databases of similar audio to group them together without moving files around
test out the different peak display modes, normal, spectogram, spectral or rectified
check out the track grouping matrix to manage your groups
try using binary operators "AND", "OR" & "NOT()" in search bars to exclude unwanted results
looking to render a lot of items? check out the region render matrix and wildcards.
Jump around your projects using markers 0-9 and the corresponding number keys
try experimenting with different pan modes to see what works best for your needs
use item selection sets to easily select groups of items
export your music score to pdf or musicXML
use the hot key "?" to bring up the action list to browse available actions
in the actions list, select "find shortcut" to find if a shortcut has already been assigned
use different actions lists to change what shortcuts are used in different contexts
export and back up your key maps, to ensure you don't lose your hot keys.
looking for a new work flows? explore bespoke workflows like LCK Render Blocks and NVK_WORKFLOW
install SWS/S&M to add more features to Reaper
use the ReaPack package manager to easily install and maintain a wide range of extensions
use the toolbar docker to swap between toolbars quickly
create folders in the add FX menu to group together your favourite plugins for different tasks
quickly route tracks by dragging a track's routing button to the track you want to receive audio 
fx containers can help make your fx staging more clear 
preform Parrelel FX processing on a single track by routing fx outputs to separate channels and then combining them again in a final plugin (like ReaLimit)
use ReaSurround and ReaSurroundPan to help with surround sound mixing
by default, Reaper will auto mute a track that exceeds 12dB+
lock envelopes and tracks to prevent unwanted changes
Reaper supports basic video editing using the same techniques used for editing audio
you can add meta data as you render from Reaper
use the dry run option when rendering to test your levels and check for any issues before rendering for real
use the batch file converter to quickly change file types, names and properties in one go
use the find button in the preferences field to quickly find the setting you're looking for 
use the render queue to batch render multiple sounds, or render the same sound in different formats
right click the mute and solo buttons to see an expanded range of actions (such as exclusive soloing)
use the loudness analyser to quickly measure loudness data without having to render or playback audio 
press shift-p to open the envelope of your last changed fx parameter.
alt click a plugins wet/dry knob to hear only the wet signal before it is mixed with the dry
apply fx to individual items, not just tracks
Assign actions to midi inputs and turn your MIDI controller into a hotkey keyboard 
Kenny Gioia
simplify your most used actions by setting them to single keys (rather than being combined with shift or ctrl)
use the performance meter to help identify what fx are hogging your CPU
use ripple editing when editing long single tracks(such as podcasts)
try out reapers built in sample ReaSamplOmatic 5000 
use track and project templates to give yourself a headstart on project setup.
try hiding unused tracks to clear up your project.
DC offset? use a highpass filter set to 5hz
setup track templates to skip setting up new tracks with the same settings over and over